This is jockelpodcast number 159 with echo Charles and me jockelwillink
Good evening echo good evening
There's a
a terrible feeling
in the gut
that I've only felt
while I was overseas in
in Iraq and it's it's this
deeply distressed kind of sick feeling
and it literally feel it and you're gut
literally feel it in your stomach and my stomach
and it's not it's not the fear it's not fear
it's not it's not the fear of death
because when you get to a point
when you kind of accept that death is a
possibility and you're okay with it
then that fear kind of goes away
and it's not the fear
of one of your guys being wounded or killed
it's not that either
because even that fear
even that fear you you kind of get a control of that fear
because you know you can't dwell on it because you know if you do well on the fear
of one of your guys getting wounded or getting killed
then that's going to detract from
the very thing that you're supposed to be doing that will most likely prevent your
guys from being wounded or killed
if you're dwelling on that fear
you won't be doing the things you should be doing like planning
and training and preparing and inspecting and reviewing and leading
so even that fear while it's persistent and heavy
and potent it's you have
some level of control over it
but when something goes wrong when something
happens
and
and your response bowl and the burden of command
settles down with its monstrous monstrous weight on top of your shoulders
because there's no one else to blame
that's what I'm talking about
and actually I felt it for the first time really
a little bit during my first deployment
that I did to Iraq and my platoon we did what we were supposed
to do some things
didn't go right nothing crazy but mistakes were made
and there was actually back to back to back missions
with related targets that we were going after and I was the assault force commander
and I think one of my might have been the ground force commander so
I was clearly responsible for these missions and there were some mistakes made and
my commanding officer came and
spoke to me about it you know, pulled me aside to point out the mistakes and the
resulting impacts that these mistakes were going to have
and he wasn't happy I mean he wasn't
he wasn't mad because we had a good relationship and he was talking to me just straight
but he wasn't happy
and you know I kept the conface and I took ownership and said hey my fault
this is the things we're going to do to fix it you know
but even though I kind of kept a calm face in front of him when he left
I again I felt like that's wretched in my stomach that
that I had made some kind of mistake and
and one of the worst things about us there's nothing you can do like the mistake happened
you can't go back you can't fix it
and I can't compare that feeling to anything else really that I've felt
because I've never felt anything else that feels like that and I've talked about it with
my friends and leadership positions overseas and like actually the first time
it's actually stoner that talked to me about this this gut feeling
and he had something going on and
and he's like you know that feeling and I was like oh yeah I know that feeling
and like I said I've never I've never felt this
feeling this knowing feeling and you're gut that's eating you from the inside
I think you see it sometimes
if you watch you know some movies trying capture this feeling
of where it's basically where someone's life is falling apart but they're trying to keep a
facade up that everything's going okay
have you ever seen the movie Fargo?
no okay I got you on this one and this movie Fargo there's a guy and he's he's a
car salesman and he's been fudging the numbers and then he's
he's he's trying to kill someone there's all these things are happening and it's all
and he's a very I would say a very naive person and he's you know married and he's got
kids and he's trying to do this stuff that's not right and he knows it and it's starting to
come apart and that that's the kind of thing where you can see it's just eating him from the
inside so I think it's that that type of
knowing deep feeling where everything is going wrong and there's nothing you can do about it
that's the that's the closest I I think I can come is is just when things are going so wrong
and there's nothing you can do about it and I think that that feeling that feeling for me
I think that's why I'd never want to that's why I always say combat is humbling
it's because of that feeling right there where you
some went wrong you couldn't stop it you couldn't control it you can't fix it it is what it is
and that makes it humbling extremely humbling and because of that it made me want to make
sure that I did everything humanly possible to prevent from that to prevent that feeling
from grabbing hold of me again if if I could help it get opened up my mind it made me
it made me always want to listen to other people's input because I always said to myself wait
if I didn't see what was going on over here how do I ever know where my blind spots are
I always think I must have blind spots somewhere there must be something I don't see
something I don't understand how can I listen I need to make sure I listen to other people's
viewpoints and perspectives so that I don't so I can cover and yeah cover as many blind spots
as possible review other methods and other ideas and other principles to see what I could learn
from them and when people raise opposing points to me I don't object to them I don't bristle up
and it's it doesn't offend me when somebody says something that isn't that I don't agree with
it doesn't offend me at all in fact I want to know more about it and as I as I go through my life
I try and continue to listen I try to absorb opposing opinions and process them and I want to
just understand them I want to understand the context of them I want to understand the perspective of them
it's it's how I think I'm going to eliminate as many blind spots as possible so when someone would tell
me like a new tactic right new tactic when I was in the in the teams and someone say hey we're doing this now
and there's of course when somebody tells you something new there's always a part of you that says
that bristles up to it and I again those humbling situations that feeling in my gut that I
didn't want to feel it it pushed that ego down because I actually want to hear what your ideas I want
to hear if this is a blind spot I haven't noticed I want I want that idea to work I want to see
how it works I want to see if it works and sometimes they would work and it's any and I would learn
something sometimes they wouldn't you know sometimes it would reconfirm the reason and then that person
would learn hey the reason we don't do what you're wanting to do is because of this and so now I'm
helping them with a blind spot that they might have but either way my goal was always to learn
to hear other people's viewpoint and that's the way I remain today those other viewpoints are
going to make me sharper I I'm going to read things so that I can see them from other angles
understand things from other angles they can strike when you understand something from another
angle you can strengthen your position or you can leave your position if you realize that your position
is wrong and it's going to make me better and it's making me better not for me not because I want to
be better but for the people that are around me the people up and down the chain of command that I'm
trying to support them so I can do my job better as a leader as a follower and as a person and also
so that I can as much as humanly possible avoid that wretched, seaving miserable feeling in my guts
so I was thinking a lot about that and tonight we're going to explore some principles of war
actually called general rules by this individual Mackey of Ellie this is the Mackey of Ellie
Nicole Mackey of Ellie this is the guy that wrote the prince he's got all kinds of great quotes out there it's
better to be feared than loved if you can if you cannot be both he's got never never was anything great
achieved without danger here's one if an injury has to be done to a man it should be so severe
that his vengeance need not be feared that's pretty ruthless here's another one hence it comes
about that all armed profits have been victorious and all unarmed profits have been destroyed in
one more quick quote as you you can you can just google Mackey of Ellie in quotes and you'll find
a bunch of great ones men rise from one ambition to another first they seek to secure themselves against
attack then they attack others and that's actually from the prince which is his most famous book
and if you think about the process of being a human being that right there is very accurate
and you can really see that with accuracy if you overlay that on jiu jitsu first you seek to
secure yourself from attack and then you attack others right when you're rolling that first when you first
start you're just trying to defend yourself not to get children and then eventually you can stop
from getting choked and you can stop from getting armed lock and start trying to attack those people
and armed lock them so that's Mackey of Ellie and if you don't know anything about them he was an
Italian really a politician and a diplomat and but on top of that this was during the Renaissance
period and he's an actual Renaissance man so he was a poet he was a plot philosopher he's a playwright
he was an author of books born in 1469 died in 1527 from 1503 to 1506 he was in charge of the
Florentine militia and when he was in charge of that militia he didn't like mercenaries
because he realized the weakness of mercenaries is that they they're they're getting paid that's
why they're fighting they're not fighting big from their true belief system so he raised and recruited
a citizen army and they were well respected on the battlefield and they fought in some pretty
good battles and won but it didn't last forever for him was eventually defeated and dissolved
the Mackey Valley was accused of conspiracy and tortured and of course whenever I
I go down a lot of rabbit holes but I went down that torture rabbit hole for a little while yesterday
and they pretty brutal about it but he they thought he was a conspirator or whatever he
did he even after torture they couldn't get it out of them they eventually just exiled him
and that's when he wrote his book the prince which I'm sure will cover on here at some point
this is where you hear this is where the word Mackey Valley and you know that's kind of
it usually refers to his book the prince and usually that word nowadays is used to describe
someone that's kind of scheming and unscrupulous if like if you look it up in the dictionary that's
it'll give you a definition along those lines like someone that's trying to snake and make things
happy and happen but and like I said I'm sure we'll cover that book at some point but
after that he wrote another book which is called the art of war and it's it's definitely a
really good book it's and we will probably parse through the entire thing at some point but one
thing that's good about it is in the end of the book he part seven of the book and there's yeah
that's the last part of the book he basically breaks out the most important principles from the book
which makes it pretty easy and straightforward to talk into to explain them and and then you can
get the details and like I said I'm sure we'll get granular at some point on it but
here's what he says in this book he's and it's bear with me a little bit only because the
the translation is old I know that I've told you many things which by yourself you might have
understood and considered notwithstanding I have done it as today also I've told you for to be
able to show you better meaning thereof the quality of this army and also to satisfy those if
there be any whom have not had the same commodity to understand them as you nor me thinks that there
are other to tell you then certain general rules the which you should have most familiar which
be these which is his way of saying listen I wrote a lot of stuff I'm glad you understood it or at
least you say you did but just in case some other people can't understand it I'm gonna break it down
for you very simply in these general rules and and like I said the translation the translation
that that I read of this book is called the Tudor translations by and it's translated by a guy
named Peter Whitehorn in 1560 so we're talking like somewhat archaic language and it's a little
bit tricky you know to get through but I'll talk through and we'll get it into an understandable
format and there we go so like I said he says hey look I wrote a lot of stuff here's the general
rules that you should be most familiar worth here we go number one the same that helpeth the enemy
hurteth the and the same that helpeth the hurteth the enemy that one's pretty straightforward right
what benefits the enemy harms you and what benefits you harms the enemy straightforward I think
you know that's one of those common principles that across the ages everyone says and the
reason they say that is because people forget it people forget that if if we're if we can
hurt the enemy in any way it's helping us and anything we do that benefits us is going to hurt the
enemy yeah so sometimes we forget that that's why many of these various canons of principles on war
remind us of that because it's an important fact number two he that shall be in war most
vigilant to observe the devices of the enemy and shall take most pain to exercise his army
shall endure least perils and may hope most of victory so what does that mean that means pay attention
that means be vigilant in observing the methods and plans of the enemy when you're in war number one
pay attention to who you're fighting against understand who they are Andy Burke
he was going to do an EBI but it goes an EBI match you know he was going against
Craig Jones you know you only think about Craig Jones Craig Jones is savage Andy you know
he's he's awesome but we know we're up we're training we're training hard he goes and compete
against him and loses fast yeah why do you lose he lost because well number one because Craig Jones is
awesome and you know what Andy's real good at he was good at all of the jiu jitsu but he's got real
good footlocks got real good heel hooks he likes to play that game you know it's training with me
training with the list and so he's rolling in didn't know much about Craig Jones in fact you didn't
know anything about Craig Jones he just said oh yeah he's good whatever not not not in a
disrespectful way but you ever heard somebody say like when they say what do you think about your
opponents left hook or whatever what they say what do you think about your opponents grounded
pound and they say I'm not worried about my opponent it's what I'm going to do it's not what
they're going to do you know what I mean and I don't mean that in a bad way I'm not trying to say Andy was
cocky but Andy's thing was like look you know I do jiu jitsu yeah that was his approach yeah like
I do jiu jitsu and hey and also there's a little bit of like hey well you might go against this
guy but he might get hurt or you might have this or whatever you know what I mean so and it was a
tournament as well so you can't really get focused on one guy you're going to be fighting
three or four guys in one night you just got to get your jiu jiu jitsu game up so Andy rolls in
and he went right into Craig Jones's game in seconds and and the other thing was Andy super relaxed
like I mean he's he's relaxed anyways so he's like oh okay this is you know we're just going to
do some jiu jitsu and and it'll escalate over time and eventually you know something you know
we'll get to that point and whatever and he goes in and boom and goes right into like one of Craig
Jones's like really good moves just goes right into it form and you know I was bummed and obviously
Andy's bummed but didn't do any you know we me I should have been like hey man let's look at
your opponents let's check out their game because if you just know you know how it is if you're a
wear of someone's game you can definitely mitigate you can't defeat I'm not saying he could defeat
Craig Jones but he would have been he wouldn't have fallen into that in a matter of seconds he would have
been oh this is his move there I need I know what to do to at least mitigate the first attack the
second attack right if you don't do that you're gonna you're gonna have problems and Andy got and he
came back and we that he's like he's like yeah that guy's good so props to my boy Craig Jones
you beat my my boy hopefully you guys will meet again one day and you get a how get another go and
he'll know your game a little bit better but bottom line is study your opponents study your opponents
now can you go too far with that yeah you can because some people think oh I wish that happens
sometimes when the UFC's some little miswated they'll get hurt and they'll throw a new opponent
man there was ready for that guy had been training for a strike or now you put me up against
grappler or whatever so you know a serge this is pretty cool serge who was a really who was and
he is a really good wrestler he's also jujitsu now but he was he said when he would train for wrestling
you know because he was a high school wrestler at Powway which if you know anything about wrestling
in California or actually in America you know Powway high school has a like real dominant wrestling
program and he was a wrestler there as well as his brother but he said when he would train he would
picture someone with no face and it's because you know when you're in the high school wrestling
scene out in California you know the people that you're gonna come up against right and it's
tournament you're gonna come up against these six guys you know that two of them are good or whatever
but he just say nope and then when he would look at him he's like when I would look at him before
a match I wouldn't even I just see like a blur just fog in their face and then he said once he
would knew he was gonna go against that guy then he'd look at him and calculate their face and
be like I'm gonna kill this guy but that's the why what was his point in that was he didn't want
to get like his mind offset by oh it's not who I expected it to be right so he wouldn't have any
expectation on who was gonna be he was just gonna get in the murder mode and then when he
finally realized that they're walking out of the map but then then he'd look at their face and
go okay this is the guy I'm going against and I'm gonna kill him which for Sard you know that
me he's the actual so observe the methods and plans of your enemy absolutely
next part of his you you have to endure much hardship and training of course you got a train hard
so observe your enemy no what they're doing and then train really really hard and you're gonna
have a greater chance for victory of course common sense next one number three never conduct
by men to fight the field if first that was not confirmed their minds and know it's them to be
without fear and to be in good order for though for thou audist never to enterprise any dangerous
thing with thy soldiers but when thou seeest that they hope to overcome so again we're doing
some middle English here I think you English linguists people can get at me if I'm wrong
but we're pretty close to middle English maybe it's a little late middle English but we're in the
ballpark so what is he talking about there? Never lead your soldiers into an engagement unless
you are assured of their courage and then he actually says unless you know them to be without fear
which is a stretch in my mind because you're gonna have people they're gonna be afraid in fact
when you can you you're gonna people are gonna be afraid when they're going into combat 90
something percent a high percentage of people are gonna have some level of fear but you do need
to make sure that they're gonna be able to overcome that fear so if you got people that are
shaken in their shoes and they feel you know you think they're gonna do not they're not been tested at
all well then that could be a real problem then then the question becomes okay well how do you
test if someone's gonna be afraid or not what do you think they do in the military with people what
do they do what to make them not scared or test their fear yeah how do you test their fear put them in
scary situation put them in scary situations in training make them repel off the high tower
make them send to airborne school hey airborne school I would say you know of course there's
there's some level of some things that you need to learn in airborne school but you're basically
I mean you can literally throw a sack of potatoes out of an airplane with a parachute on
and it's gonna land up pretty much okay most of the time and that's what you do when you go to the
school you learn the proper exit procedures when I went to airborne school it's a kaze here's
the extra procedures here's how you land you're floating down you don't know much control over
your parachute so there's not a lot to learn technically it's not like a major skill set I mean
it's a really pretty this way it's a three week school right it's not like it's not it's not a long
intensive school about learning how to pack parachute or even how to maneuver yourself to the
air because there's only so much you can do so what is it that's important about airborne school
what's important about about airborne school is you're gonna overcome the fear of jumping out of a
damn airplane that's important that's why an airborne you go go talk to the 80 second airborne
division of the 101st airborne division those guys are awesome and they have that little thing that they've
all done that has put them they've been screened out a little bit because some people are going to
be afraid so yes that's what you do you make people do hard scary things I mean in the
Seal teams it's the same thing what do they do you're gonna learn how to parachute then you're
gonna parachute at night then you're gonna parachute at night into the water then you're gonna
jump out of a helicopter at night at you know 20 feet into the darkness and with a boat and you're
gonna rig that thing up and you're gonna dive at night and you're gonna swim at night in the
open ocean like you're always just gonna go that scares some people some reason never really scared me
I have no fear of sharks let me rephrase that I have no fear that a shark is randomly
gonna bite me like if I was in the water never sharks I'd be scared yes and I know that there's
sharks in the water said that you guys should be scared but I don't know I feel lucky yeah I feel like
sharks don't really want to eat they very much they'd rather eat like someone like you
well I guess if you're on a surfboard I guess that increases the chances from what I
understand yeah yeah because you look like a seal like I like a sea animal seal so that's what
you do you put people in situations where they're gonna be afraid you know and this is something that
I think everyone should do if you have a job that's gonna cost stress you want to put people
in stressful situations so that's how you test that fear and again you're not gonna be able
to remove the fear from people what you want to figure out is can they overcome the fear that's
what you want to figure out what else you say no that they're organized never making attempt
unless you unless you see they hope for victory so you got to convince if you're telling
you guys like hey we're probably gonna lose you don't say that you say look it's gonna be hard
but there's a chance we could take this you know what I mean you got to get them in that attitude
not the attitude of like oh we're just gonna lose we're just gonna be out here for no reason yeah
don't let that happen yeah number four it is better to conquer the enemy with famine than with iron
in the victory of which fortune may do more than valiantness that one's pretty self-explanatory
it's better defeat the enemy by hunger than steel you know it's better to let them starve than
have to go and fight them and then he says in such a victory the fortune like you're luck counts
more than valiantness which is cool understandable this is one of those things where
he heard me say before the best victories are the victories where the person doesn't even know
that you're fighting them that's the best victory and then if you can if you can maintain your ego
after you win and you don't glow didn't ever even they ever register it yeah right they didn't know
there enough they didn't know there enough that's what you want this is very similar but this this
part all throw a little back at it in such fortune victory counts more than valiantness
yeah good fortune's gonna help but guess what we're gonna make our own luck
right we're gonna make our own luck that's what we're gonna do we're gonna and we're gonna make
bad luck for the enemy we're gonna dry up rivers we're gonna damn rivers so they can't grow food
that's what we're gonna do so we're gonna cut off supply chains that's what we're gonna do
we're gonna make a we're gonna make fortune favor us number five no purpose is better than that
which is hidden from the enemy until you've executed it boom pretty straightforward no plan is
better than that which you have concealed from the enemy until the time you execute it it's no doubt
true in life true in business true in jiu jitsu that's what just essentially the element of
supply of the surprise if you if you if you if your enemy doesn't know what you're gonna do
yeah and then you're done and they go oh that was a nice arm walk yeah or wow you really took
over that market share and I didn't see it coming yeah yeah if you don't see it coming that's
really it yeah they see it coming from a mile away it's like yeah you can still do that sometimes
deemed does that yeah but we yeah we talked about that but he does different things though like yeah
yeah yeah he he like many many steps yeah yeah he'll tie up your defenses while it's on
that when you when you see the incoming he ties up all your defenses like as if he gets close
number six to know in the war how to understand occasion and to take it help if more than any
other thing to know and war how to understand occasion and take it help if more than any other thing
what does that mean that means you one of the best skills you can have is knowing how to recognize
a good opportunity in war or in life and take advantage of that opportunity that is more beneficial
than anything else and you know the biggest and most blatant example where you see this
well your kids are not enough but with kids just kids kids have so much opportunity in life
yeah and they just don't take and jump it like they should right yeah yeah I would that could
see how that could be for sure but I think that's because they have hard time connecting now
and then the future you know I guess that's the thing yeah there's no doubt that they have
there's no doubt that they have that athletes real good athletes same thing they have all this
potential yeah anytime someone well not anytime oftentimes somebody that are some people
that are given a gift yeah just given to them they don't have to work for it they don't want to take
advantage of it they don't see the opportunity they don't take advantage of the opportunity
yeah that skill set is yeah yeah almost like you know when you give a kid a gift
versus or money versus if they earn it you think you covered that away the way you're a kid
yeah that's that's way covered away the way you're a kid yeah so when you earn it it's like you
know the hard work sort of it takes and you kind of appreciate it and then whatever comes out of that
but yeah if it's given to you you just you run the risk of squandering it for sure especially
when the going kind of gets rough you know yeah no doubt next nature breed if few strong men
the industry and the exercise make it many what does that mean that means you know nature makes
very few strong brave men but hard work and training makes many boom it kind of work for it
yeah you want people to be brave you want people to be have courage make them strong
now make them work hard that will absolutely increase their bravery remember that question we
got asked a while ago about how do I make my unit guys in military military how do I make them
proud how I increase their level pride train hard they will get physically stronger they will get
mentally stronger and from that they will start to take pride in themselves and pride in themselves as a
unit hey discipline may do more in war than fury figure need like yeah kind of like that one
discipline counts more than fury in war discipline counts more than fury in life
I'm not discounting emotions I'm not doing that because you can't because sometimes man
people's emotions they get they will carry them through a really tough time period that's why
in discipline it was freedom in the field manual I talk about how you got to use both
it's logic and you got to use emotions and when sometimes when emotionally it doesn't make any
sense or you're going to break emotionally you got to go with the logic of the situation like
I got I got to drive through this and vice versa sometimes the logic is like this is makes no sense
whatsoever and it turns to the emotional side but discipline he says may do more and he's right
it's not 100% it's like discipline because if you have people that are just discipline but they have no
heart they have no emotion well how good are they they're not that good they're not they're not
not as good as the person that has both there's not as good as the person that has discipline and a
little bit of fury they can kind of get crazy when they need to but in MMA you see this you'll see
someone when they're young and they'll lose some fights because they'll they'll sit someone down
or whatever and then they'll just go crazy trying to catch them and they'll get caught in a triangle
mm you have to maintain your discipline even during the the actual battle you have to
maintain your discipline you can't let the fury get a hold of you yeah too much
this is a plundered fury discipline fury yeah you know you watch the cyborg fight right
the reason why I'm sure a man didn't do this yes so this is what it seemed like it's fast
but this is what it's looked like where cyborg landed like a solid one and a man in Nunes
as a response unleashed fury like some legit fury fury but it was discipline fury because when
she started landing hard once she didn't like over commit it was like really balanced you know she
looked great but there was some there was a lot of fury so there's a fury like it wasn't like
all just oh my god you laid it like punch it there was there was fury but Tim Kennedy someone's like
uh the UFC tweeted out like she's throwing haymakers and Tim Kennedy's like those aren't haymakers
because every single one of them hit they were full punches from Amanda that were nailing cyborg
right in the head yeah in most of the time like five times in a row you don't you don't normally
see five punches land especially not punches that are thrown with that much fury yes yeah
you can kind of tell when like you see like they're they're uh feet when they're you know third
punch is like you could there's like a huge forward lean if they're haymakers there's like the
huge forward lean and they usually pressing forward like fully but when they're like discipline
there's like that you see you can see the balance like they'll back up just a little bit you know
yeah it's good so good yeah so that's crazy discipline may do more than fury so you know what
make sure you have some discipline in the life alright next one number nine when any apart from the
enemy side for to come to serve the when they be faithful they shall be unto the always great
gains for that power of the adversaries are more diminished with the loss of them that run away
then though of then those that be slain although that the name of a fugitive be to new friends
suspected and old to odious to old odious so what is he talking about traders there three
talk about so he said when any apart from the enemy side to come serve you so when when people
leave the enemy and they come to serve with you they're gonna be more loyal
and they're great they're a great acquisition and actually he's saying that people that leave
the enemy and come to your side are more powerful for you than people that you've killed
and they have more value the when they come aboard your team they're gonna be suspected you
know the the old the your team is gonna look at him with like a cautious eye and the team that they
left are gonna hate them yeah they're gonna hate them that was weird when social nitson was saying
that when they would capture the Russian turn coat soldiers that were now fighting for the Nazis
as soon as they spoke any Russian did kill him that was that was a pretty scary thought so this is
very accurate from that perspective yeah if you're a trader we're not even gonna give you a chance
we're just gonna kill you yeah wait so who wait who'd so the Russians the Russians didn't kill him
that no so there was a whole group of Russian soldiers that turned against Stalin and turned
against Russia and started fighting for the Nazis yeah and so when the Russians would capture
those what they considered to be traders as soon as they heard a soldier speaking Russian they'd
kill him but not these you mean they were they were Russian soldiers fighting for the Nazis
was it vossal what was the guy's name so there was a German or sorry a Russian general that
was the leader of that whole group the vossal army I think was the name yeah and so
when the Russian Stalin's Russian actual red soldiers would capture these traders that were fighting
against them now they would if they heard them speaking Russian did kill him so this is from that
perspective it's accurate yeah I wonder why they're more valuable you think because what because
or loyal you said loyal right to well the the the Russian soldiers that were now fighting for the
Nazis they would fight to the death because they knew that they were dead anyways they were captured
yeah like if they got yeah so yeah they were they would fight even harder the thing that I'm not sure
about this is well I I guess I agree with it I do agree with it when someone's a trader you're
suspect of them right yes you know you're just you're just like you're you get your a trader I'm
suspect to you so it's gonna take a little time for me to actually trust that you really came to
my side yeah but I guess like when you think about just like how you said you know they know
they're dead anyway kind of thing where it's like okay let's say mean you were enemies whatever and
one of my guys goes to you and says hey I give up all all help you I give up you're like okay he
gives up I get it and let's see what he has to offer kind of thing yeah but you're suspect yeah but
you're suspect but let's say a guy in your team used to be on my team and I know that I'm pissed at
that guy yeah and then he gives up now to me to my guys like my guy CM or whatever and he's like
okay I give up I'll help you oh no no you don't give up you're dead yeah so it's like that like how
you say no they're dead anyway what the Russians did to the vossal soldiers yeah so you
you traded okay cool you're dead and that makes sense right so that's probably why they have
to be loyal because it's either loyal to your death you know they can't give up anymore if I
am not a trader I can give up and give me POWB whatever I can I can give up I had that option
trader who already made the trade he doesn't have that option that's why he's loyal he has to be
like yeah the men who he's gonna fight to the death yeah and it's interesting too that
traders are you know in the business world because in the business world you know there's
everyone's always recruiting there's limited number of the human capital limits in in the world
and we can only get so many people that can do this job and if you have skills in that job you're
getting recruited all the time and so that's that hurts when they leave and that's why and
and just to kind of close the loop on this when they leave almost all the time the reason that
they're leaving is because of leadership well I should say lack of leadership inside the
organization so if you have a if you have a problem hanging on to people in your organization
it's most likely a leadership problem not a comp problem not a midlife crisis problem for the
employee it's a leadership problem because good good people will stay with good leaders and if
there's not good leaders they're looking for another job they're looking for another way they're looking
for another opportunity leadership leadership leadership gets on number ten better it is in
pitching the field to reserve behind the first front aid enough then to make the front bigger to
disperse the soldiers what that saying is it's better to keep your reserves just behind the
keep some reserves just behind the front lines rather than spread out your reserves and take on a
bigger front trying hold more areas better to you know this is prioritize next keep your keep your
focus of effort even with your reserves keep folks of effort keep them consolidated so you can
utilize them well next up number eleven he is difficulty overcome which can know his own
power and the same of the enemy okay let's that was almost like a Yoda type sure he is
difficulty overcome so what we're saying there is it's hard to overcome someone who knows how to
recognize or knows and understands his own power and the power of the enemy so what does that mean
know your strengths and weaknesses that's what it means yes since he says that right yes something about
yes definitely number twelve the valiantness of the soldiers availeth more than the multitude
sometimes the situation help with more than the valiantness okay so what we're talking about there is
that the bravery of the soldiers is worth more than the number of soldiers you have make sense if you have
brave courageous soldiers they can take a lot more and they can do a lot more than people
or soldiers that are afraid so you want brave soldiers and then it says the site what does it say
that sometimes the situation help with more than the valiantness so even that what trump's the
courageous of what trump's the bravery is what's the what's the terrain situation you know what's
the environment that you're in what are the rules of the game what are the rules the game that
you're playing because if you if you know the rules you're going to be in a much better situation
the this happens in jjitsu right yes because rules are always a little bit different there's no unified
set rules in jjitsu there's some close but there's no unified set rules and sometimes someone will
lose simply because they don't know the rules yeah and then once you know the rules you got to
train to the rules yes like ebi yes ebi you have those positions that you start of in if you're
an overtime you start in spiderweb you start on the back right if you don't if you don't if you want
you know those rules then you got to practice those positions so you can finish the remarks
so you can finish from the back or if you can escape from either one of those two yeah if you don't
know that and you don't practice it because like for instance I'm pretty good at things
finishing on arm lock pretty good at finishing an arm lock sure on the back I normally
transition from the back to another position so I would if I was going to an ebi tournament I'd
have to go and focus on what that rule set is and make sure I know how to win from that position yeah
yeah big one is the submission only versus points and so people like let's say they spend 10 years
competing with points in the tournaments you know then they go to submission only with the guy who's
only trains in submission only he's gonna out you know it's gonna have an advantage yeah
in all these different yeah different ways because certain rules don't apply some do
yeah and the terrain part man this is this is it took me a while to understand this in my
navy career how important terrain is and now it's so obvious but when you're maneuvering on the
battlefield if you know how to read terrain well you have a complete advantage over the enemy
complete advantage over the enemy you should be paying attention to that terrain studying maps
looking at it now they have all these you can you can simulate the earth right it's a Google
maps like a high speed we can get down at i level and you can walk the terrain and really understand
what the visibility is like that's the kind of that's that's you should you gotta take advantage
of those tools you got to understand the terrain you got to understand the terrain that you're
going into in the business world you go gotta go into a company understanding what the situation is
there when you get hired into a new company you want to know the terrain you want to know who's
got the clouds you know you want to know who the movers and shakers are you want to know what
things are off limits in whatever you don't know who's buying like you know people they
you know people we say this was a billion dollar industry right like that kind of stuff like
oh is it you know how's the what's the need for your product i'm remembering because they want
shark tank this is what they always ask what what was the what was this a particular product
it's not an average everyone like pretty much that's one of the things like they ask or they say
they'll be like oh yeah this is like a million how you know a million people own pets you know
and all these pets need this you know so you see seems like so they kind of they got another terrain
in that way yeah that's true there's data know how many people have pets then they don't know how many
people gonna buy that shampoo you know so you gotta know that one do shark tank wait
maybe we should just do a leadership show about shark tank what people learn from shark tank
sure next up number 13 new and sudden thing make armies afraid slow and accustomed things
be little regarded of them therefore make the army practice and to know with small fights
a new enemy before they'll come to fight the field with him middle English coming at you
so what what is that what basically what we're saying here's number one new and surprising
things frightened armies the new and surprising things frightened people so on the opposing to that
customary and expected things they can handle so what do you do how do you how do you how do you
you properly mitigate that therefore you practice and you fight small engagements to get them
experienced before you go to battle on the big battlefield with them with the enemy that's what you
do train hard don't dive right in get them used to the new technology that's what you do
this is another good one with kids right you'll throw your kid into this scenario that they
haven't been into before you give them a little taste of it well yeah this is this is exposure
therapy once again I get asked on the warrior kid podcast I get asked every
like every day I get at least one question from a kid that's I'm afraid of what do I do
and I I I usually wait two or three podcasts before I answer the same question again because
it's kids they got to get the repetition they got to get the reps in but it's exposure therapy
you're afraid of something cool do a little bit of it then do a little bit more and that's
unknowingly what I did in the way the warrior kid won with him overcoming his fear of the
water I didn't know that that was a real thing not until Jordan Peterson's like this is called
exposure therapy yeah I guess I need to talk like Kermit from to imitate Jordan but
but he's like yeah that's exposure therapy yeah okay next number 13 number one I
went on the number 14 he that with disorder follow with the enemy after that he is broken
will do no other than to become of a conqueror a loser if you pursue a routed enemy in a
disorganized manner victory will be lost and you'll become a loser keep it under control
all the Amanda newness right sure she had the victory and the you ever seen that that one real
quick clip and I forget who the fighter is that did it is UFC the guy takes a body shot
any he kills over like he's about to like go down and the dude comes running in swinging
the dude that's killed over like he's hurt just fuck yeah he wasn't hurt he was just faking it
yeah I think he was hurt talk about Scott yeah yeah maybe he was hurt but he wasn't hurt as bad as he
right he's functional apparently he's much more like the dude out yeah it was the lesson
his nickname is drog going on that it's interesting that that stuff doesn't happen more often
it's like a trick football plays yeah how come more trick football plays don't happen
because they'd lose their trickery element of it and I'll sometimes there's a lot of risk involved
there's more risk than like a traditional play a lot of times yeah yeah and it's like like the
rope a don't remember that the rope a dope oh yeah yeah you essentially like act like you're
kind of hurt or tired of whatever and then they punched them so far then you get them but yeah yeah
yeah you gotta be careful on that kind of stuff so when you do have your enemy
on the run don't go after them crazy keep it under control yeah there's a play in football
called the reverse right and I thought that because you just said why don't they run
trickery you know I didn't play football yeah and when you see the trick plays
then you think well that seemed to work pretty good why don't they do that stuff more often yeah
okay so here's a common trick play right they the quarterback does a so sweep right
to the to the running back there runs the outside and then the running back oh he stops
before he reaches line of skirmitch he stops and he throws the football not to a receiver but to
the quarterback who ran a route on the other side of the field and because no it's going to
come to the quarterback he's not a receiver you know and that was why it opened the past always
why it opened what's it called we called it passed back to the quarterback so good like
three sweet pass back to the quarterback but I can see where there's risk in that one yes because
that's a running back so you gotta nail that throw which is really hard for running back
typically but I'd say the the one that would always work is in pop Warner anyway it would always
work is the reverse it's essentially like you do a sweet everyone's running this way to block
for this running back everyone except for the one tight-end or the whiter's coming this way and
the running back hands it off the him going this way so he's full speed running this way so everyone
has to change direction to chase them and usually that side of fields wide open it works way
better in pop Warner and younger teams because they don't like these these situations like
they don't know they just see everyone running there and they just sort of go you know more
than a professional they're gonna be like wait I shouldn't have just been you know but that was
one I was like why don't we just always run the reverse because every time this is this team
that we play it against they'd always run it and it always I understand why if you ran it every time
well then then the regular reverse or the regular play would become the surprise but it seems like
it seems like you could keep people guessing a little bit more those trick plays always see
I always look at him how it's pretty creative and pretty good yeah yeah I
think you see it like kind of like I said like when you go up in like skill like you're going to
the pros or whatever trick plays don't work is good they have to be really advanced trick plays that's
when you have you've seen like the trick play that like where they like almost walk off the field
yeah and then they like walk over like there's something wrong with the ball or something like
stand up and they'll be like no so they're wrong and then they just start running yeah so even that
and then those can backfire too because they'll be like if all it takes is one defensive person
to know that hey that ball is in play right now so they can just sort of walk over and hit it
out of the hand grab it from whatever they want because no one's blocking them you know no one's like
even it's kind of it's just risky check you get more people doing that they're going to be like oh
they're hip to it and it wouldn't ever work yeah after a while number 15 he the prepare if not
necessary visuals to live upon is overcome without iron so um whoever does not prepare food
and provisions necessary to live is going to be overcome without any weapons at all so what does that
mean take care of your people take care make sure you take care of your logistics logistics wins wars
and people need to survive so do that number 16 he that trust if more in horsemen than in footmen
or more in footmen than in horsemen must accommodate himself with the situation so in the ancient
times you had cavalry on horses and you had the infantrymen on feet and he said if you prefer one over
the other then you have to put yourself in the right situation where it's advantageous so that that's
why it's good to be well balanced and not really prefer one over the other but if you do then put
yourself in a situation that's most advantageous to your style or preference of fighting
like but make sure you learn how to wrestle because if you don't know how to wrestle someone
else is going to dictate you where that fight's going to go 17 when Valrite see if in the day
there be coming any spy into the camp cause every man to go into his lodge okay so woo what we're
saying is this pretty straightforward basic head count if you want to see if there's a spy in the camp
every time everyone to their place you know get ahead count no we deal 18 change purpose when
Val perceives that the enemy half for seen it was that mean if you if you think the enemy or if you
perceive that the enemy knows what you're doing then change your plan that's that's what that means
pretty straightforward now where we don't do that or the reason most of the time we don't do that is
because of our ego we got our plan and we're going to stick to it now this is a total
this is why leadership is hard because there's a point where you're plan you got your plan and
if you stick to your plan you can it's going to work right and then there's a point where you
stick in your plan you're sticking with the plan and it's going to fail because it's not working
so as a leader it's only the hardest thing to do is leaders to recognize like you know what
the plan that I came up with it's not going to be perfect but it's still going to work and we're
going to go with it because to try and change the plan halfway through is really hard to do even if
you rehearse the contingencies and now if you rehearse the contingencies properly you're
probably going to be able to execute your new plan pretty easily but if you didn't it's going to be a
problem so this is one of the hardest things for a leader to do is to pay enough attention and then
way the risk versus reward because if you're coming up with if you have your plan and you're
executing the plan and I'll put some changes it's not quite what you thought you decide you're going
to try and do something completely different what your change is that you make on the flyer
going to cause as much confusion as what the enemy is doing and it's going to be a real problem
however like this says if the enemy sees what you're doing and now the reacting to it in a proper way
and your plan is no longer effective you have to be able to you have to be able to
comprehend that and discern whether you should change or not and that's one of the hardest things for
the hardest decisions for a leader to make as it's happening. What's worse than that is we have
a long period of time when you start talking about strategic plans this is where ego gets more involved
because when I have this plan and this is what we're going to do and I'm just going to stick with it
and if it's not working I'm going to do it harder. So that's what you want to watch out for
you know there's some of these companies being taken down by online companies right you
gotta change your game plan you know you gotta adjust you gotta look at them and say okay what
are they doing where are they going we don't blockbuster like I like I've said this before blockbuster
could have could have completely dominated Netflix but what did they do no we're just over here
hey people are going to keep coming to our stores yeah you know there's a certain feeling that
you get when you come into a store and you get to look at them browse with the movies it's
something like you get to pick up popcorn we're going to get popcorn at your house you know people
going to want to come into these stores no actually they're not they already have popcorn if
their house Amazon delivered it yesterday in an hour by the way you're turning to an island and yet
they had all the relationships with the movie places with the one of those movie companies called
what are the production companies what's more than brothers what is that yeah production studio
yeah they all that studio they got the relationships with the studio they could have been like
hey we're going to start selling this stuff online yeah and they were saying well that doesn't
make any sense because that it's going to be all jumbled up when it gets download again but it's
going to get better we're just playing the long game yeah it's weird that blockbuster said they were
thinking you know it's too hard to download a movie on the internet it's going to be jumbled up
there's going to be buffering no one even knew what bothered Netflix invented buffering no
buffering is just the internet situation yeah when it has to catch up with you remember jiffy five
years ago there was buffering on all kinds of stuff but now there's hardly any buffering barely any
buffering I bet my littleist daughter doesn't even know what buffering is she's there just streaming
I'm sure she knows what it is but she has never witnessed it yeah well then again you know
you bad service somewhere you get some buffering they weren't wrong they I mean they were wrong
block blockbuster but they just the whole idea of like people like coming into blockbuster and
browsing the movies and buying the thing is that's true like we did like doing that yeah but it's
because we didn't have a better option you know like when you go like even going to the store
sometimes it's kind of cool and fun you know sometimes but most of the time at the end of the
day I'd rather press a button than go to the store I'd rather press a button too every single time
yeah and there's also that thing where you you're it's a positive feedback loop right it's an echo
chamber I like going to you know to those people in the in the sea suite of blockbuster like
you know my wife loves going down and picking out a movie with the kids they love doing that you know
there's someone's like yeah you know my kids love that too so I mean my teenage daughter likes
doing it too with her friends and like you said this because there's no other option yeah your teenage
daughter would be rather being a road alone and a room clicking on the next Netflix movie
yep pop in there pop corn that got delivered or yeah so if you if you are on a strategy it's not
working you got to recognize that you need to change it note to self everyone in the leadership
position pay attention to that one next up number 20 soldiers when they abide at home are maintained
with fear and punishment after when they are led to the war with hope and with reward
that what's insane is so when soldiers are confined to their quarters they're kept there by
fear and punishment when they're led to war they're led by hope and reward you know fear for me
is just not a good tool for a leader to use period I'm not saying you never this is I'm not saying
you should never use it right you there should be some element a little element of fear right
let me ask you this to your kids have any fear of you at all because you seem real nice
yeah they do yeah there's there's no healthy element yeah I mean I would say yeah healthy but
I don't really know what the standard of healthy fear levels are but yeah we agree that there
is a healthy level of fear even with your kids yes your kids shouldn't just think that
there's it's going to be no repercussions for anything that they do yeah your troops should also
feel a healthy level of fear yeah and it's hard even use that word because they were
to so negative yeah but there should at least be a level of like you know what we want to do that
yeah no there's a line with jocco and you don't want to cross it there's a line with dad echo
you see he's real nice and all cruiser I think I am a little bit too crazy though
so sometimes you do have to make sure people understand that if they cross the line there's
going to be a problem and my kids definitely understand if they cross the line there's going to be a problem
yeah that makes yeah to real problems it doesn't surprise any keep some in check
next up 20 and I'm pretty lenient I'm pretty cruiser you're actually surprisingly cruiser
in lenient everyone thinks it would be the great Santini you probably never seen that movie
but you don't want to raise your kids like that well you don't want to be all militant and
impose discipline on your kids and make them number one reliant on your discipline
instead of their discipline I don't want to you don't want anyone like that you don't want
your team to be like that whether reliant on you barking at them to tell them what to do
you don't want that then they can't function for themselves you don't want your kids to be that
way either your kids to think you know what I need to make a good decision I could
slack off or I could do what I'm supposed to do I'm gonna do it I'm supposed to do because I
know it's gonna be beneficial in the end as opposed to I'm gonna do it I'm supposed to do
only because I'm afraid that my dad's gonna yell at me or ground me or take away my computer
or smash one of my favorite toys yeah yeah you don't you I mean the assumption I think
anyway would be that you're like more drill sergeant yeah I'm not even drill sergeant I'm never
I know you know but I think it's like when you look at you or maybe with you just said like
one or two sound bites and you're like all he's just there's recordings many recordings of when I
used to debrief seal potins okay I'm gonna try and get some of those and what is it they're just
well it's it's definitely I could see it's not drill sergeant E but it's definitely direct and
can be pretty harsh yeah that's what I understand people would probably but but that was usually
it only be that way if somebody really did something a grieges because most of the time
maybe okay what do you think what do you think about over here debrief me on the you know what I mean
so yeah and it's all contextual too like you know I guess it's kind of natural like let's say I
heard that or anything and I heard that and be like okay he's real direct and real strict and
like all this stuff so it's just natural to be like oh cuz he's that kind of guy you know
rather than kind of the understand the nuance like okay he's talking to these people at this time yeah
and then versus but then again then that it opens it up who knows and how you'd be so you just
mind just sort of wants to just attach yeah what they have witnessed you know to everything yeah well
even drill instructors are like drill instructors yeah I mean it's a it's a training methodology
yeah there's a purpose for them in that way see and you know that because you've been around
because these type of leader isn't doesn't function that type of leader is not good
that type of person isn't gonna function within a team yeah so you can't you just can't be that
way is there a level of intensity sure do I bring a level of intensity sometimes yes absolutely
but that's not the way to go through life imposing discipline and fear into your team
you'll end up with either one of two things a broken team that relies on you for their discipline
or a team that mutes against you and comes up and kills you frags you in the as they did in the
nom next number 21 good captains comment never to fight the field except necessity can strain them
and occasion call them so what that's saying is good you know good captains good leaders never
enter into the engagement unless it's completely necessary that's a that's a great
point and this is one of those things where if you're in a leadership position you shouldn't be doing
the you shouldn't be shooting your gun at the enemy you should be observing your team shooting
the gun and looking to see where the enemy is maneuvering too yeah this is a this is about
detachment right here don't get in the mix state detached decentralized command let the team
maneuver let them understand what the commander's intended is and let them maneuver towards victory
you stay back a little bit monitor dive in there does that apply to because you're the one who
kind of said this example to me one time I forget it was on here or not but you're like um it was
about you when your kids tying their shoes you know let's say like I don't know you're late for school
or running later whatever and they're having a hard time tying the shoes you're like let them
tie the shoes don't jump in and be like oh do it you know kind of I did say that and I've said
it a bunch of times that's a real simple example that that's a little bit more towards the last
question or towards the last discussion that we just got into I mean if you let your if you
if you tie your shoes for your kids all time they don't know on time yeah and furthermore you literally
are taking away their opportunity to learn some fine motorcycles at that moment this is not the same
as that this is this is on a broader perspective your team is doing your team is in a firefight
and you pick up your gun you go on the front line you start shooting at the enemy well now
who's leading right now is looking around yeah this is the same as you know you're in a business
situation and your team is trying to come up with a plan and they're arguing amongst themselves
and you jump in there and start arguing too now you don't have a good perception of you should
be just standing back listening to the various arguments take place I'm not talking about
arguments where people are young and screaming I'm talking about a discussion where they're
arguing different possible courses of action if you dive right into those and you start becoming
involved at point blank range you lose all your perspective so instead you step back you don't you
don't you don't go into the field yeah you don't dive into the argument you step back and you
watch the fight unfold and then as the fight unfolds you see the best options because you're
at altitude and you're not at point blank range one foot from the enemy fire yeah this is just
detached decentralized command next up 22 cause that enemies cause that the enemies know not
how thou right order thy army to fight and in what so ever manner that thou or dane stint
make that the first band be received of the second and the third
middle English get something what we talking about here well cause your enemies know not so that
means you don't want your enemies to understand how you're gonna organize your your army to fight
that's what this is you you want a confusion you don't want them to know exactly what you're
going to do and then the second part make it make that the first band maybe received the second
and third I'm pretty sure not 100% sure but I'm pretty sure that that's just talking about
mutually supporting positions so you want to set your team up so that they can support each other
so confuse the enemy don't give up the plan and set your teams up so they can help each other
once your tea once a team is alone and unsupportable they're alone try not to let that happen
23 in the fight never occupy a battle to any other thing then to the same for which thou
hast appointed it if thou will to make no disorder it's a good day it's it's modern English
appreciation it makes it hard to they spell even words that you know they spell them all
different and just so you know you're looking at this I actually tightened up some of the
spelling and made some of the spelling more modern because I just could write it it was harder to
track man yeah it's harder to track again this this thing was interpreted from Italian in
1560 by George White had was getting after the translation yeah so it's it's interesting and
this is the same thing you know I said that when we did Shakespeare it'll need to do more Shakespeare
but people think all I should just understand Shakespeare you're not been understand Shakespeare
it's almost a different language so you need to actually break it down like we're doing with
these various statements so what this one is saying is don't use a company don't use a
don't use a unit for purpose other than what you've assigned it unless you want to cause disorder
unless you want to cause chaos so you got your team they're assigned to do this let them do that now
obviously that can be problematic so we need to mitigate that because there's times when
team is going to have to do something that you don't want it to do and so I'll give you a little
example when you're doing an assault on a target you have two elements the base element and the
maneuver element the base element is going to stay in position they're going to sneak up on the target
and then the maneuver element's going to sneak over to the flank and then the base element's
going to start firing massive fire power out the target and then the maneuver element after a little bit
will stand up and start to go through the target they shift fire off the target and then you
clear the target so when I was a young kid in the grooms person so we would you know like let's do
this yeah so we're going to hit this target we're going to do a fire and maneuver on this target
base and maneuver so what we would do is say okay let's take all of our heavy machine guns
and put them in the base element and then the guys with the little pea shooters the little M16 pea
shooters all those guys will be on the assault because they're light and they'll be able to maneuver
really quickly through the get to the target and then go through the target makes perfect sense
and I remember the first time I presented this type of plan to one of the old guys from
nom is like no don't do that why not master chief this way we have more fire power in our base
and our maneuver guys can maneuver more quickly here's the problem when that maneuver element is
going towards the target what happens if they get compromised and contacted and now they're there
the ones that have to lay down their base they can't get up and move because they're being shot at
so guess who has to move the base element has to move and they can't move very well if they're
only getting a cover fire from little pea shooters so you keep your integrity of your squad
and you utilize them that way and it's like so what you want to do in this situation is you want to
make sure that your elements can are capable of doing each others jobs maybe not to the fullest
extent but they at least need to be somewhat capable so maybe you put one machine gun and they expected
one extra machine gun and they expected base element and now you only have a couple of machine guns
in the maneuver element but you got them if you need them so I don't 100% agree with that
that being said you definitely want to let people do the job that they were assigned to do
make sense right trained them you've assigned it let's let's try and keep the plan as it's
supposed to be to the best of our ability but we're thinking we're not black and white here
yeah leadership is not easy you know another thing is when you establish your teams you try and
use those teams for everything if you can and again this is a dichotomy because as much as you
want to keep your teams together you also have to train them to be split up and broken up and
combined and missed massed all together and I would always do this with all my fire teams so the
fire teams would stick together as much as humanly possible but guess what I would also train them
that if they were all scrambled up someone would step up take lead and that'd be a new fire team
and we'd start making stuff happen next up 24 the so-dean accidents with difficulty are remedied
those that are fought upon with faculty I had to look up so-dean because I couldn't even
get a clue on what that one was but it's some sort of lead or a ruler it's actually a ruler
and this is so he's saying the so-dean accidents the leadership accidents with difficulty are remedied
are hard to fix when leadership screws up it's hard to fix those that are fought upon
are with difficulty are remedied if you use your head quickly so yeah there's gonna be
leadership problems and their hard to fix unless you think and think quickly how can you improve
your speed of thinking you know you can do that practice practice so
let's say get experience to break because experience is the other practice yeah it's
experienced if I've seen something before it's I'm gonna know thousand times faster how I'm in
a reactor yeah if I haven't seen it before I'd takes me a while just to comprehend what's in front of my
face yeah so that's why when we train we train to throw things okay so first of all when we train
we want to throw things at people that different scenarios different things happening where they
start to get pattern recognition oh I've seen this type of thing before on top of that you also
want to train people what to do or how to react when they've never seen it before they've never seen
anything like this before because if I show you let's say i'm training you for well I guess one
one is we'll just use a jitter turn right I'm training you for a jitter situation it's right
and I teach you how to defend this and I teach you how to defend that and I teach you how to
defend that and I teach you how to defend this and I teach you how to defend that right I teach you
how to defend ten different things and you get pretty good at it I also have to teach you
a broad concept of what to do and there's something that you don't recognize so
So hey, if the guy grabs your arm, I want you to pull your arm here.
Hey, if the guy starts to go for your neck, I want you to swim your arm, your hand underneath
and tuck your chin.
If the guy starts pulling towards your back, I want you to shift your leg up and so he can't
maneuver around there.
So I'm going to give you exact steps to execute.
If you see these things, and then I'm going to say this, if he's doing something you don't
recognize, here's what I want you to do.
I want you to tuck your elbows in, I want you to posture, and I want you to control those
hips.
Oh, okay.
And then you'll start to be able to recognize what's going on, at least you're going
to survive.
Yeah.
I want you to detach and step back and say, what's he attacking?
Same thing with combat.
I'm going to train you like, hey, if he does this, you do that.
If he does that, you do this.
If you have no idea what's happening, here's what I want you to do.
Get into a 360 degree perimeter, listen, right?
I mean, whatever that situation is going to call for if you don't know what's happening.
Like if I don't know where I'm getting flanked from or if I don't know where I'm getting
shot at from, hey, everyone take a knee, get cover.
Don't just start shooting because that's going to cause confusion.
It's also going to give away our position.
So what we're going to do, when it goes into a 360 degree perimeter, we're going to hold
what we got, we're going to listen.
That's our, that's our, if we don't recognize what's happening, that's what we're
new.
So we have standard operating procedures for things that we recognize and we actually
also have something to do if we don't recognize.
We have a procedure for non-recognition.
Yeah.
Which is important.
It's kind of like, I mean, it's different, I guess, but it kind of maybe fits in
with you know how people expect the unexpected kind of thing.
So it kind of fits in this.
You're essentially trained for unexpected stuff like that.
And we say, I would say go, one, yes, that's the important part.
It's not just to expect the unexpected.
It's have a protocol for when something unexpected happens.
Yeah.
Here's what we're going to do.
Because a lot of times when something unexpected, I'm thinking to you, it's
to you.
Because that's on purpose.
You know, like these guys with these weird games, we're tall flexible guys.
They're like that.
They have these weird games.
And they'll do stuff that they know, or they kind of rely upon you not and have seen
it before.
So they can capitalize when you start to panic, you know, or when you can, you know,
if let's say your arm is out here, like there's some leg locks that require you to kind
of try to spin out of it and then they'll catch you with something else, right?
It's kind of that.
So if you have a protocol that's just like, I don't know, whatever, the protocol is
safety protocol.
You know, it not only keeps you safe, just statistically speaking, you know, chances are,
it'll keep you safe, but it'll jam up their game.
Yeah.
Overall, you know, especially these people that they capitalize on you panic, and
not knowing what to do.
Yeah.
You know, and you want to have some kind of a reset position.
And I used to use this with fighters like, hey, here's your reset position.
Like just get to hear because you're comfortable there, get them under control, control
their hips, whatever.
Combat, same thing.
Oh, your, your, your, your everyone's confused.
Everyone's mixed up.
Guys are all over the place.
Let's get to a reset position in a building.
Yeah.
Everyone knows where we are.
We get it control of ourselves.
Yeah.
Business.
Same thing.
We got, we got scenario that we don't know what's happening.
You know what, general quarters.
Like, hey, we're all going to go to our normal positions.
We're going to stand by because we don't know what's happening right now.
So you've got to have not just to expect the unexpected.
You've got to have a protocol to follow when something is occurring that you don't understand
yet.
Some kind of a reset position.
Note that in your world.
Next up.
Number 25, men, iron, money and bread be the strength of the war.
But of these four, the first two be most necessary because men and iron find money and
bread, but money and bread find not men and iron.
Yeah, that one's pretty pretty, pretty self explanatory.
Now let's go to a business perspective here.
A business perspective here because this can help people make decisions in the business
world when you're going to make expenditures.
When you are going to invest in something in your company, it is important to assess whether
or not you are investing in something that is going to help you build is going to help you
grow or if you're investing in something that is not.
So for instance, let's say, hey, we could either take 50,000 dollars and remodel our
current office or we can take 50,000 dollars and we can rent this new sub office in an
more area that we don't have any presence in.
So which one is a better investment?
We don't really need that remodel of our office.
This other thing is going to help us actually grow.
So make sure that the investment that you're making, the first thing you want to invest
in is men and iron.
You don't want to invest in money and bread.
Money and bread is going to be gone.
And it doesn't reproduce itself.
Whereas men and steel is going to get you more of that bread iron in the long run or
sorry, bread and money.
Alright, number 26.
The unarmed rich man is a booty to the poor soldier.
What does that mean?
It means that the unarmed rich man is the prize for the poor soldier.
That sort of means.
It means it means be armed.
And this is the last one.
Number 27.
A custom thy soldiers to despise delicate living and luxurious apparel.
I like that one.
What does that mean?
Get your people, get your soldiers to despise delicate living.
Spise comfort despise luxurious clothing.
That's what I'm talking about.
They'll be better soldiers.
They'll be better people.
You feel like I'm talking to you right now?
What?
The connoisseur of comfort.
It's a comfort.
You know, in my firing line right now.
Yeah, I did it, man.
Obviously, I can't disagree with that because dang.
Let me.
Yeah.
When you've been uncomfortable for extended period of time, doesn't not make you a better
person.
Yeah, it does.
There we go.
Yeah.
You know, the whole idea, it becomes a bullet.
We've told me the story of you because I know it doesn't reign a lot here, but you
used your kettlebells in the rain and the other day.
You've told me that story two times in a two days in a row now.
Sure.
Right?
Yes.
Today you told me that even Jade, your brother came out was impressed by your determination.
Come in.
So what is it?
What is it about?
Is that that made you feel compelled to tell me about it and be, you know, for lack of
a better word, pretty damn proud that you went out in the rain and did a kettlebell
workout in the cold.
Yes.
Well, yeah, it's strong.
And how did you feel inside?
Well, it's strong.
When it was over.
Feel better.
Yeah.
This is it.
Well, yeah, it makes me feel stronger.
I'm asking you real questions right now.
It might seem like I'm joking, but it's actually real.
You know why?
Because this is a little step for you.
There's other people that are listening that would benefit from hearing how taking this
little step away from comfort really truly made you mentally and physically better.
Go echo Charles.
Right.
Well, the, well, what can I start on that one?
Okay.
So, okay, yes.
I go outside out of workout planned.
It's raining, raining kind of hard to do by the way.
And it's kind of cold.
You've got to wear like a lot of clothes.
So yes, I go ahead and do the whole workout hard too.
And yes, remember that it was like dang, that's some dedication, whatever.
But yes, so the feeling is, yeah, that I'm actually strong now.
It's like basically when you break down it's like now you're strong, you're not weak.
So weak would be like just the little is thing will throw you off your plan.
You know, the little thing because you can't, because you're so used to comfort where
you're so used to like the clothing thing.
I mean, yeah, that's kind of weird too.
Like if you always got to be wearing like nice clothes otherwise, like you're kind of
you don't go out or something.
I don't know.
But it's kind of the same, it seems like the same concept.
But yeah, if you can endure that stuff, then how do you feel when you're done?
Better.
Did you feel better after a workout in the cold rain where you went and gone after it,
then you would have had it better just normal 70 degrees in sunny so cal.
Yeah, a little bit.
But I feel like it's, it was just more of a psychological thing, which does help
big time because now you know that rain, you just prove to yourself that rain cold,
whatever is not an excuse.
It seems like I will be you.
30 years, raining cold, isn't it?
It's no more.
No more.
Well, here's the thing.
It's going to battle.
You know what's funny?
Here's a good, here's a good expression.
You said in the day, it was better, when it was raining.
You know, we'd say good operating weather.
But it was kind of, it's true.
It's definitely true because when it's raining and when it's cold, guess what?
The people that are, you know, on watch your enemy, guess what they're doing?
They're hiding.
They're all bundled up in warmth.
So that makes it easier for you, plus there's noise from the rain, which camouflages
the noise that you're making walking through the jay or the woods or whatever.
But that's always a good one.
Whenever it's crappy weather, I always say to myself, good operating weather.
Yeah.
Kind of smile.
But we used to say to each other, it's like, you can't complain about it.
You just look at your body, it's like when you, when the door of the, of the heelotruck,
you know, the heelotruck is, no, back in the day we didn't have a lot of money from
budget.
And so we'd pretend that we were in helicopters and we'd be in the back of big trucks and
just drive out in the middle of the desert, open up the heelotruck and open it up, open up
the door and we jump out like we just got out of the helicopter.
Little did we know that when the war actually came, we would be using vehicles.
We used vehicles all the time.
We had rare, I rarely, rarely used helicopters and I rack in Afghanistan.
They used helicopters a lot more.
But for me and I rack, foot patrol and heelotrucks.
But we didn't have to call him heelotrucks anymore.
Now we just called him trucks.
Sure.
But when you're in a heelotruck in 1994, and you get driven up into the wherever, and
that door of the heelotruck opens up and it's raining and it's cold.
And as you're getting out of the truck, your last moment to communicate out loud to everyone.
You hear someone go good operating mother.
And you're like, yeah, this is going to suck.
Yeah.
If you're used to being uncomfortable, right, or if you like despise comfort, however
you put it.
Yeah.
It's not me.
It's a Macie Valley set.
It's despise comfort.
Dispising comfort.
Essentially you're getting comfortable with being uncomfortable.
You know, they say that, right?
They do.
So yeah, that's what they're doing.
So that's why yeah, just basically at the end of the improves your chance of success.
So may a roadblocks of discomfort come about in the future.
That's what I'm in.
Indeed.
And I think that not only will the rejection of comfort make better soldiers, it'll make
better people.
So yes, as you said, get out of your comfort zone, impose discipline and discomfort on yourself
and you will become a better person.
And that wraps up Macie Valley for now.
But echo speaking of getting out of our comfort zone.
And this is going to be a little dichotomy here.
But getting out of our comfort zone to become better, what recommendations do you have
for us to make that happen?
Like I said, there's going to be a dichotomy here.
Okay.
Because what do we have?
Well, well, there's a lot of things you have.
But yes, so being the kind of sort of comfort.
And so you're kind of the kind of sort of discomfort really in a way.
I don't know about that.
Here's the thing, no.
I don't think about it much though.
You know what I mean?
I'd have to be actively thinking about it.
About what discomfort.
Just about anything.
I'm just over here doing what I'm doing.
I don't know what I mean.
This comfort.
Just, I don't care.
I don't care.
There's that old Viking saying.
It's like the rain is cold.
And the old Viking says, how can the rain be cold?
Right?
The rain's not cold.
Yeah, but I don't know.
I don't care.
How can the rain be cold?
If it's cold, then it's cold.
No, it's cold to you.
And it hits you.
The rain itself has cold.
That's a plan.
That's a plan work.
Yeah.
That's another good thing to think of yourself.
Another good thing to think of yourself.
You only get wet once.
Yeah.
I've talked about that before.
You're waiting to go across the river.
You're looking for the best spot.
You're like, oh, no, you just get wet.
You're waiting to get wet one time.
What's your wet?
You're wet, doesn't matter.
Yeah.
It's true.
So like, suck it up.
The comfort thing is it's all.
It's like context as a huge.
Has a lot to do with it.
Remember how I told you that time where it's like, you know, sometimes you can just
fall asleep on the floor or in the beach.
I don't know.
But then sometimes you get in your couch or wherever.
You just can't fall asleep.
Can't get comfortable.
You know?
Interesting.
Because you expect the comfort is what I'm saying.
But if you don't have any comfortable expectations, it's like you just be, you're
just comfortable.
It's almost like you're just appreciative for eating kind of comfort.
But if you expect mass comfort, it's like you can't get enough comfort, you know?
Because you just expect more.
It's weird.
Like, um, okay, so you know, you have experience with cold water.
Right.
Getting in and going to hit the surf.
Whatever.
So when you're there, how hard is that?
It's not.
Not right.
It's just like we're just doing it.
Yeah, this is what we're doing.
This is we're doing whatever.
It's cold.
It sucks.
Whatever.
Even if it's, but here's the thing, this is me keeping mind, but still I think
it holds true.
So I'm getting in the shower the other day.
It's cold here.
California weather is cool.
I'm going to let the peep.
Well, Pete's going to understand because this is probably having to him too.
So listening, you know how you cold, you know, like it's just sort of cold.
Right.
So I'm going to, um, but take a shower and you know, the kind of when you turn on the shower
is it's not just doesn't come out all warm.
It's got a week.
It takes a few seconds or whatever.
So so I turn it on and hits me.
Oh, because you take warm showers.
That day, that's your warm shower.
Anywhere understood.
Anywhere the cold water like kind of hit me and I was, oh, there's no way I could bear
going underneath that shower like before it gets warm.
No way.
But then, and then whatever it heats up, but I'm thinking like, not like the fuck,
joccal guys going that cold surf like for a long time and so then I'm thinking, no, it's
totally in context, you know.
Like if I, let's say a minute before I walked in the shower, I was like, I'm like,
cold shower right now.
Doing it literally the same exact time.
I could do it.
It seems like.
So it's like a mindset kind of thing.
And check.
Even aside from the training, of course.
I would say this in the reason that I can't, I mean, it's just like blank.
No, it's not here.
Maybe it is, but no, I don't know.
Think about this.
We get out of bed, right?
Well, that again, your routine's different.
But yeah, let's say you're just sort of going.
I have an actual ice bath.
Yeah, but that's different too.
So, but I think I spent a lot of time.
Okay.
But that's the one.
I'm saying like, what if you get out of no out of bed or you're just cruising at home,
which you probably don't do, but let's say you were, and it was just cold.
Kind of like, I'm pretty cold right now.
I should put on a jacket right now.
Let's do whatever.
That's how cold it is right now.
Not freezing, but just I'm cold right now.
I'm comfortably cold.
And then let's say your son comes with a couple of ice water and dumps it on you.
Right?
Yeah.
How are you sneak up on me?
So you're saying, okay, maybe didn't sneak up on you.
Maybe he's, I don't know.
But let's say he poured ice water on you.
Okay.
You're telling me that you're like whatever.
That wouldn't.
You'd be Viking like can be like, oh, like, I don't know.
It's not cold.
Well, I tell you if he was looking for a reaction for me.
I wouldn't get it right.
Okay.
Which I did, I did it.
There would be a grappling match happening real quick though.
Yeah.
So yeah, and I understand.
I'm not saying that it would be nothing or something.
I'm saying that those two experiences are different.
Okay.
So I'm talking about the actual physical.
Yeah, of course it's called water in you.
Yeah.
But it's so it's not nothing.
But it's something.
But that it compared that experience to if he came up in the, hey,
Dad, I have this cup of cold water.
It's kind of cold right now.
Do you think you can like endure this, right?
And you're like, oh, yeah, I can endure it.
Do it.
And he did it.
I'm not saying that would be nothing or something.
I'm saying that those two experiences are different.
Okay.
Yeah.
Same same.
So this is the, this is element of surprise.
Is all we're talking about.
One year is the surprise.
One you're not.
If you're surprised, it's going to throw you off a little bit.
Yeah.
If you're not surprised, you're brazed for it.
You're good to go.
Yeah.
I mean, if surprise is just one element of a different context where you don't necessarily
Okay.
So surprise and mental preparation.
Mental preparation is I think the overarching.
Because surprise would fall under the mental preparation.
I love going on.
Same same.
I'm telling you that shower experience kind of enlightened being a little bit anyway.
Okay.
Be comfortable with being uncomfortable.
That's a jujitsu thing too.
By the way, is that where you heard it mainly?
I don't, maybe that's where I first heard it.
Yeah.
Because that's a good thing to have.
Oh, yeah.
That's the backhanded compliment that Hicks and Grace, he told me when I rolled with him back
in the day.
What?
He goes, he said, you're very comfortable when you're in really bad positions.
And I was all happy.
Yeah.
There you go.
He was good at jujitsu.
Yes.
So.
Yeah.
That's what I heard too.
But yeah.
So that means, dude, you did two kind of really?
That last strategy.
What do you call it rules general rule?
Yeah.
Is essentially despised delicate living?
No, it is not.
It's not delicate.
But it's not brutal.
Depends who you're all with.
Yeah, that's true.
Very true.
There was some blood on the mat last night.
Boy, I believe.
Anyway, dude, dude, dude, dude.
If we're not in jujitsu already, we might not agree on the different mindsets for cold and all that.
But we do agree.
Do some jujitsu.
Dude, dude, dude, dude, dude, dude, dude.
And when you do it, you're going to need a gear and what gear do you get?
None of the other thing that he's ever made.
100% in America from top to bottom, from origin, origin main dot com.
That's where you get them.
You get whatever you want on there.
And you can you garage cards.
So you can do no guiswell.
And then you can get t-shirts and hoodies, which you're comfortable, which are the antithesis of what we're talking about.
Yes.
Because you have claimed, and now this claim has been supported on a social media sites around the world that the origin jogger pants, which I don't wear, are universally the most comfortable pants of all time.
Yeah.
Still, I mean, I went on searches like my son got a pair for Christmas.
Could you know when you're in my family, guess what you're getting for Christmas?
Yeah.
So he got a pair and I tried them on and he was like, you got to take them on.
They look as they just don't look.
Because you don't match, they just not, they're not me.
Yeah, because joggers as functional as they are, because they're super functional as far as jogging and running.
It's functional as they are, that's a style thing.
Like they're in style right now.
But that somehow related to skinny jeans, are they not?
So they're related, that's the look related.
So you, yeah, you can't wear skinny jeans.
They used to issue, when I was at Seal Team 2, Seal Team 1 we didn't have it.
Seal Team 2, they issued us joggers, but this is back in the day.
They were basically like the same thing.
Because it was cold in the winter time and the guys would want to run with those things on.
But I didn't wear those either.
But everybody else can work. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And they're outer, they weren't under the air.
We were wearing them like over your running shorts.
Oh, okay. Yeah. Cool. There you go.
Yeah. But these are these are probably going to be way more comfortable going from origin.
And they're made in America. By the way, I don't know if I mentioned that.
But yeah, those are good joggers.
Here's the thing, you despise comfort.
Well, I don't think you despise comfort.
Not as much as I should.
Yeah, okay, that makes sense to me.
Don't despise comfort. Just like I don't despise the rest between sets.
Because comfort is there for reason when you're kind of cold.
I guess that's what I was going to say earlier.
You enjoy comfort more when you have discomfort.
Yes, right? Oh, you don't want to be the person that's constantly in a feather pillow
temperature controlled scenario.
You want to be in like the tough environment and then you're like, oh, this feels good now.
Yeah. Like when you get out of the one you've been surfing and it's cold.
I went surfing the other day with no wetsuit on.
And it's wintertime here, by the way.
But one of my two actually of my toes were nums.
Straight on your white.
How cold is that?
I mean, like what 55?
Yeah, I feel like that.
I mean, I only went for like 45 minutes.
But yeah, I was cold when I got done.
Yeah.
And then I went into jacuzzi.
It felt good.
Yes.
So really not despise that comfort.
Yeah.
But it felt even better than if it was just a normal day and I wasn't didn't have a numb two toes.
So really it's more about the ability to endure discomfort.
That's really what it is.
So the the last time you spend uncomfortable, the less you used to it, you'll be so the more like, you know,
the less capable you'll be of enduring it.
Yeah.
Kind of that's kind of the thing.
Jack, what they're going for?
Anyway,
to watch guards, t-shirts, joggers, supplements, supplements, of course.
Joint supplements, which have shaken out to be the most important supplements.
There are that it's true.
Or indeed.
For a semi to moderate to highly active person, that's it.
Yeah.
I know this firsthand.
Definitely.
So joint warfare,
krill oil.
Those are for your joints and for your whole life.
Like the stuff that's in joint warfare.
To America, it has all kind.
It's not just like, yeah, it's good for your joints, but it's good for a little.
It's good for everything.
Yeah.
Which is as I was, you know, reading more about it.
Oh, no, there was an article that spring up.
That's what it was.
And I was like, wow, I didn't know that all this no wonder I feel so good.
Yeah.
Anyway, don't wear for a krill oil discipline.
There's also, so discipline comes in lemon lime, which is tasty.
There's also the new.
Chopper thunder.
Because I couldn't call it.
We couldn't call it peanut kaleada because that just not happening.
No, no, no.
That was just a big negative.
And then there's milk.
Of course.
Additional protein, additional protein.
That taste delicious.
That taste like a dessert.
A for real dessert though.
Yeah.
And if you have kids or if you just, well, if you have kids,
you get them warm your kid milk,
which is the best possible thing you can buy a child for food.
In my opinion, taste, well, I guess we give steak.
Sure, I think vegetables are good too.
I'd even like steak when I was a little kid.
Yeah, you like burgers.
Yeah, I like burgers.
But you're more refined now.
It's luxurious now.
Yeah, it's a while.
It's an acquired taste getting into the steak thing.
Huh, yeah.
Interesting.
Possibly learn how to cook it better.
Yeah.
So yeah, warrior kid milk.
And all that stuff from origin, you can get it origin main.com.
Also, jacos store.
It's called jacos store.
So go to jacos.com.
And this is where you can get shirts.
They represent the path.
I want to represent this clinical freedom.
This clinical freedom shirt.
Here, and this is what I realized this.
I know, I think maybe a little bit too much into it.
But this happened though.
When you wear a discipline equals freedom shirt to work out.
You like won't skip the workout.
You'll be more into the workout.
I noticed that.
Yeah.
Because you look at it and says discipline equals freedom.
You know, it's like your representing what it's actually saying.
It's not one of these deals where it's like, oh, a cool star on your shirt or something.
Which is cool.
There's people that have taken that idea to the next level and gotten the
Displonicals freedom tattoos.
See, same exact concept.
And yeah, man.
I've seen it in like one dude has the dysmicals freedom.
I think it's basically on the inside of his wrist.
Try eating a donut with that hand.
Oh, no, it's not exactly that.
There's no way.
That's exactly that.
If that happened, you'd be in serious violation.
Yeah.
Like you couldn't do it.
You'd feel it.
Like you'd be doing burpees for like 45 minutes.
Yeah.
After that.
You see an eye posted a picture of the guy with it on the internet.
Yeah, that's not.
No.
There's one guy that has it on sub-sum.
You talking about the one guy that has it on the wrist.
Yeah, that's the one.
It's the one that really has the stamp.
Yeah.
That's the real call.
That's the one I took the picture.
But yeah, I saw that.
It was good.
See same exact concept, man.
Yeah.
Because yeah, you can't not represent now, you know, got the shirt on.
Boom, you got the tattoo now.
You can never not represent.
Or you're going to pay the price.
Yeah.
To yourself, by the way.
You know, so it's like a stamp.
I dig it, man.
I dig it respect.
Also, we get that tattoo.
I think you should only get that tattoo.
If you.
You need to commit first, right?
Yeah.
You commit first and then get the tattoo.
Don't think that just the tattoo is going to push you over the edge.
Even though, probably, well, you know, right?
But maybe that's not the best approach for tattoo decision making.
That's what you're saying.
Either way, yeah, anyway, it's called jockelstore.com, you know, the shirt and before you get the tattoo, get the t-shirt.
Get the shirt first.
Yeah.
Get a hat.
There's a lot of cool stuff in your- in the game cool, then you can step it up a little bit more.
Cody's.
Yes.
Women's stuff.
I'm going to have some new stuff on there too.
You keep saying that.
I know, but, you know, I'm going to do it.
Meanwhile, is there patches right now?
We out of patches.
Oh, well.
I don't know.
Let me double check.
Let me check with the guy that's in charge of an tattoo.
Oh, wait, that's you.
All right.
Well, rest assured.
Hey, good.
If you see something cool, get something.
If something sold out or something like that.
No, no, no, let me know.
I guess.
No, you know what?
It won't be.
Or it'll be on the way.
Either way, it's called jockelstore.com.
A lot of cool stuff on there.
If you want something, you want to represent in the wild.
In the wild, that way.
Get something.
Also, jockel white tea.
On the store that we saw that on the store too, by the way,
in jockels.
But you can get this.
Yeah, it's good.
I'm going to get it from Amazon as well.
Where else?
Guess what I'm drinking right now.
Jockel hot tea.
You know why comfortable?
Because it's a little bit cold.
I'm going to get the cow up.
See?
Boss, it.
Hey, not not.
And make it make it.
Yeah, it makes sense.
You're no stranger to discomfort.
So I think you can't, you know, whatever.
But yeah, jockel white tea is one of those deals where
even if you don't like tea that much, you'll probably live in this.
It doesn't.
It tastes like tea, but it doesn't taste like tea.
Can I say that? Is that making any sense?
Yeah, you know, if you drink it, that makes it a codomy.
This is a kind of jockel white tea.
But there's no dichotomy in the factory.
There's a reason why I'm teaching the, the, the, the,
the jutsu class at the master and he used the word dichotomy and then
everyone started laughing.
Yeah, because the way he says it is like directly,
he's directly mocking me.
Yeah, he's a newer dichotomy.
Yep.
So yeah.
So yeah, jocquity outstanding stuff.
Makes you dead, Lefa, it doesn't pounds.
But we already knew that.
Yeah, everyone knows that.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, what do I dead left has increased a lot?
Yep. Also, it's in cans, which is good for me because
the whole brewing tea sequence.
Uncomfortable.
Is unveriant, comfortable for me, yes.
So, you know, cans seems more cool, but whatever, whatever you like.
Also, subscribe to this podcast, if you haven't already.
Uh, on, you know, where are you listening to podcasts?
There it is.
I don't think we even need to say that anymore.
Okay, well, I've said that for like a year or maybe even three years
that we don't need to set a subscriber to the podcast.
But we do need to say subscribe to the Warrior Kid podcast.
Yeah.
Check it out.
Even if you aren't a kid, check it out.
I use a different voice in that podcast.
Dave Burke was talking about it.
Yep.
He's like, I even like that different.
I use this voice right here.
It's a little bit more aimed at kids.
Yeah.
This is just the way I normally talk when I do.
Because I'm kind of Uncle Jake in that.
And Uncle Jake is a little bit more.
He's not he's well, not dorky, but he just doesn't have his little
little dark side.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's a good way of putting it.
The dark edge.
He's just good.
Like Uncle Jake is just good across the board.
Yeah.
You never know what I might have a little.
I might have a little issue with something and get kind of crazy on it.
Yeah.
Uncle Jake's not going to let that happen.
So check out the Warrior Kid podcast if you want to get some more information to your kids
about being on the path.
And you can hear me talk and tell stories in this voice from Uncle Jake.
Yeah.
Actually, something actually big exactly like how you sound on it was just good.
And we're also yes, YouTube as well.
So we do have a YouTube channel if you didn't know that.
It does have the video version of this podcast and also little excerpts.
And enhanced excerpts.
By the way, I was noticing some of your recent excerpts.
You can't make excerpts that are 12 minutes long.
That's not an excerpts.
That's just like a video.
Well, technically that's not correct because an excerpt is just a part of time limit.
What do you think?
12 minutes is long, man.
I know.
And sometimes I'm going to be 12 minutes.
There's no way that everything in that 12 minutes is important.
Kind.
Yeah.
That's true.
Get out of your editing scissors.
The pins on how you look at it though.
Bro, these things are supposed to be an excerpt should be like, ah, you know what?
Boom.
Two minutes and 28 seconds later, you're like, yeah, I got this.
Oh, I did it.
I agree.
But not a lot of times.
You want people to pull up and couch and peeven for a night.
Well, some of us watch this.
So, some of us are on the computer doing other stuff.
And then boom, there the excerpt comes up.
You know, about maybe a point.
Or maybe it's like, you say something in me disagreeing and then you say, well, this is this.
And I'm saying, well, that's true, but what about this?
And you're like, okay, or whatever.
You know, it's like a little, it's like a little conversation.
Yeah.
That's not too hours.
It's just saying.
So, you know, it's presentable.
It's good.
Okay.
So, there's on the YouTube channel.
There's long and short excerpts.
That's a good way to do it.
There's digestible.
And there's a little bit more like, you know, meal time.
Conversational, you know, because it's less about like the shortness and shareability.
That's necessarily it's more about like, hey, remember the shareability.
Oh, like, I can watch it.
Yeah.
It's like, okay.
It's like, yeah, they're more likely to watch the minute video than the 12 minute video.
But the 12 minutes, like, the kind of like, if you just want to hear about like this specific, like, topic that happened to take 12.
They're not all 12 minutes.
No, I'm like, one.
This may be like eight minutes though.
Maybe six.
Either way.
Yeah.
Psychological warfare too.
Speaking of little excerpts, those are just short.
Short.
One to two minutes of out of overcome some type of momentary weakness that you might have.
If you don't have a discipline equals freedom tattoo on your wrist, that's going to keep you in check.
This is another thing you can do prior to getting that tattoo.
You can just load up your psychological warfare on iTunes, Google Play and B3 platforms, whatever, and listen to those.
Yes, which is, Jocco telling you how to overcome the weakness.
That is to that tattoo on your wrist, this little equals freedom is like the ultimate psychological warfare.
It is weapon.
Like, boom, discipline.
Oh, what if you put discipline on one wrist and freedom on the other wrist?
I actually might do that.
That's pretty good.
At Origin, I've been talking to Pete, we're trying to buy a machine that can make sweat bands, wrist bands.
Right.
And then once we have that power, two things.
Number one, I'm going to make the best wrist bands because I will wrist bands every time I work out.
Yeah.
And, but there's no good wrist bands in the world.
There's none of them that meet the standards that I would like them to meet.
Why do you wear a wrist band?
Sweat primarily.
Oh, so it doesn't go on your wrist.
Because it's a little run right down my arms in my hands and I'm just dropping everything in its socks.
Yeah.
From here.
So, I'm going to make wrist bands that are super long.
Really, really.
Just, but I told Pete, we can put discipline on one and freedom on the other one.
Right.
And you can buy a little set.
Yeah.
So, when you're just Pete's shopping for the machine right now.
Good.
Yeah.
Yes.
It can make socks.
Pete sent me a picture of a machine.
And he goes, what do you think this makes?
And I looked at it and I don't know.
I just kind of like logically it was sort of like a, you could see stuff 360 degrees around something else.
And I was like, I bet you, I said socks.
And he goes, day.
Oh, because I'm not eating it.
It's a good district.
Right.
But you can recognize it.
It was impressed with my logic.
Yeah.
You're dedu-sing deductive skills.
I'm scared.
I'm impressed too.
So you can be an impress.
Go to on it.
So on it, the company I'm impressed with always have been by the way.
So go to on it dot com slash jockel.
This is where you can get kettlebells.
All kinds of cool workout equipment that you can just slowly add to your arsenal at home.
If you've got a home gym, whatever.
Really good stuff on there.
Also good info on there.
So, you know, if you want to educate yourself a little bit more, bone that's the place to go on it.
On it dot com slash jockel.
Really good stuff on it.
Really good.
We got some books.
We got Mikey in the dragons, which is fully in stock.
Really?
Yeah.
It ran a little low.
We almost didn't make Christmas, but we made it.
Thank God.
Cool.
Thanks to everyone on the team that helped us and all the printers around that printed us copies.
And we got a bunch of copies and everyone got them by Christmas.
That I know of.
Everyone that's reached out on Twitter that said it's not here yet.
On December 19th or 13th was like, we still don't have it.
I ordered October.
I was like, it's coming to the police company.
And, uh, but as far as I know, everyone got them when they got them in time for Christmas.
So, um, now we have a lot.
So, if you want to get Mikey in the dragons, best children's book ever.
Ever.
Yeah.
I disagree with me.
No.
Well, I think just by nature, I'm like, we'll use it at claim.
Let me like refute it.
So I'm all thinking, but hey, man, I geek.
Because obviously, I want to be like, hey, what about this way?
The where it kid?
Because I thought that was the kids's book ever.
What age group?
For which?
Okay.
Best.
Young.
Was it a toddler that reads Mike in the dragons?
toddler.
Reeth Mike in the dragons.
Todd.
Best toddler.
Someone they can walk.
Yeah.
Well, some toddlers can't understand.
Best children's book picture book with.
For ages five and under seven and six and under.
Sure.
Mike in the dragons there.
Okay.
Just broke that down.
Order that.
Way the warrior kid.
When the kids get a little bit older, order way the warrior kid in marks mission.
Book three has been written.
I got pictures from John Bow's act today.
Vyatext.
You saw him right?
Witness.
Yeah.
How do you like him?
We like him a lot.
I showed.
Danny Rinehart to my youngest daughter.
And I've been.
I've been.
I've been telling her about Danny Rinehart for a long time because Danny Rinehart does everything
perfect and Danny Rinehart does everything good and marks kind of jealous of him.
And I sure and she was she's been she got all into the name.
Danny Rinehart.
Yeah.
She's an acquaintance.
She's already doesn't like him.
But the the interesting twist on the story is Danny Rinehart's actually a good kid.
Yeah.
And he just happens to be talented and he happens to work hard and he's actually nice.
But marks jealous.
So where you're kid three coming out in the spring and right now we got Warrior Kid
One and Warrior Kid do marks mission.
Also got this one.
He goes freedom field manual.
The manual for getting after it in life.
Super stoked on everyone that's posting pictures.
And I'm actually most stoked when somebody posts a picture that they've lost
160 to pounds in 14 months or whatever completely changed their lives.
Yeah.
Why discipline goes freedom?
So you can get that book for yourself.
That's also pre tattoo.
Maybe before you get tattoo you just leave this out on your coffee table.
Yeah.
You just have it there because it's looking at you.
That book is looking at you.
Yeah.
I got a stack of them in my room.
Oh yeah.
They keep you right on there.
So if you want the audio version it's on iTunes Amazon.
Use a Google Play, other MP3 platforms.
Obviously extreme ownership.
The first book that I wrote with my brother, Dave Babin taking the lessons that we learned on the battlefield.
And explaining how they can be applied to your business and to your life.
And that was the followed up that was followed up by the book that we just had come out
called the dichotomy of leadership and this is getting granular in how to apply those leadership principles into your world.
Also we have Escalon front, which is my leadership consultancy and what we do is solve problems through leadership.
If you have any kind of problem in your organization, it is a leadership problem.
It is a leadership problem.
We will help get your leadership fixed, get them aligned, and get them working, and get the team functioning properly.
We also have a leadership conference that we do.
It's called the Master in 2019.
There are three masters, May 23rd and 24th in Chicago.
September 19th and 20th in Denver and December 4th and 5th in Sydney, Australia.
Check out extremownership.com for the details and to register all of them that we have done have sold out.
This is, and when I'm saying they sold out, this is when people call me up and say, or like, people that I know, say, hey, hey, I know in a little late,
just want to, can you just reserve three seats for me and these two other people that I work with?
And I'm like, actually, no, I can't. You cannot come.
Well, we'll just stand back. No, there's fire code to keep. Can't come. Everyone thinks you all just, you know, no, it's sold out.
So you can't come. The live podcasts we're doing, January 9th.
Sold out immediately. It's like, sorry.
Gotta be quick on those again.
So there's that. Now we do have this. KF online. This is, this is the interactive training leadership training that we put together.
And, okay, so there's several places where this stemmed from.
One of them is the master itself because guess what? The master is great foundational information.
It's a great foundational leadership instruction that you're going to get when you go.
Not even can make it to the master. So what we did is we took the content from the first, like, two monsters that we did.
And this is the fundamental principles from extreme ownership from the Academy leadership.
We took those and put them into interactive online training so that people that couldn't make it to the master could still get that training.
We also did it because companies that we work with sometimes they have 10,000 employees, 20,000 employees, 100,000 employees.
And all the employees are not all in one place. They're all over the place. They're all over the country.
And they're all over the world. How are we going to train all those people?
What we needed to do is figure out a way to scale the training that we did.
There's many requests from the larger companies we work with to get the training to all their employees. How do we do that?
We had to scale it. So we put it online. And then once we put it online for companies, we figured, okay, let's get it out there for direct to consumers that want to take the training that can't come to the master.
What have you or they want to get reminded what they learned at the master. Same thing.
So that's online training.
To available now at eF online.com. Also, we've got EF Overwatch where we are taking leadership gaps in the civilian sector.
And we are filling those leadership gaps with trained and experienced and tested leaders from combat aviation and from the spec ops community.
Go to eF Overwatch.com, regardless of which side of that equation you're on, whether you're a company that needs leaders, whether you're a vet that's seeking a leadership position in a company.
Go to eF Overwatch.com and fill out the information that applies to you.
And if you want to continue this conversation with us, we can be found all up in the inner webs on Instagram, on Twitter and on the Facebook.
Keep on. Echo is at Echo Charles and I am at Jocca Willink and finally to all our military personnel out there. Thank you for protecting freedom around the world and to our folks in uniform here at home.
Police and law enforcement firefighters, paramedics, EMTs, correction officers, board of patrol, all first responders.
Thanks for protecting us and our families and to everyone else out there. Remember that discipline is stronger than fury.
You need a little bit of fury. You need a little bit of discipline. You need to combine those things.
But you take that discipline and you impose discipline upon yourself and reject and refuse delicate living and the luxuries that are available to you in life.
Instead get out of that comfort and make yourself better, faster, smarter and stronger by going out there day after day after day and getting after it.
Then until next time, this is Echo and Jocco out.